# Generation-of-Novel-Drug-Molecules-with-Specific-Protein-Targets-Through-a-Graph-Network-and-Custom-
ABSTRACT Creation of novel drug molecules is a time consuming and expensive process. Current methods require manually synthesizing thousands of molecules to develop a single viable lead candidate.  In silico prediction of drug–target interactions (DTI) is necessary for the development of new drugs.   In this research, I developed a novel artificial intelligence model capable of predicting DTIs based on drug chemical structure data.  Using 445 drugs in the DrugBank database, I created a graph network to represent the compound chemical structures and predicted DTIs based on structural similarity.  Inferring over the graph with a modified nearest neighbors to predict a new drug’s protein interactions achieved an area under the receiver operating characteristic of 0.93. Furthermore, I developed a generative machine learning model to create novel drug molecules with specific DTI profiles. Using the same DrugBank data, I created a custom Conditional Variational Autoencoder (CVAE) to encode the string representation of drug compound structures and their associated DTIs.  The DTI profiles are incorporated as conditions in the encoder and decoder of the model, allowing generation of novel drug molecules with specified DTIs. As proof of concept, I show that the CVAE can generate similar (but not identical) molecules that are still chemically valid.  Novel drugs generated by the CVAE achieved an average similarity compound score of 0.70 relative to their corresponding molecules in the test set.  This study  advances the possibility of low-cost and efficient drug development by proposing an in-silico method for targeted lead candidate molecule generation.
